# IGV 2.17.0 - Jan 2023

**Note:**  IGV now requires Java 17 or greater. If you download one of the IGV versions that does not include Java, make sure you have Java 17 installed and in your path.

**New features**:

* Base modifications

    * Base modification options now include the choice of monocolor and two-color schemes for all modifiction types.
      Previously the two-color scheme was restricted to 5mC modifications.
      See [Base modifications](/UserGuide/tracks/alignments/base_modifications/) for full details.

    * Colors for each modification, as well as colors to represent the unmodified base in two-color schemes, can now be
      customized from a new `Base Mods` tab on the Preferences dialog.

    * Base modifications are now shown for expanded insertions.


* Chimeric reads - Visualization of chimeric (split) reads have been improved with enhanced display of clipping information, as well
  as a new split read alignment diagram.   For details see [Chimeric Reads](/UserGuide/tracks/alignments/chimeric_reads).


* Autosaved sessions - IGV sessions can now be automatically saved and restored. See [Sessions](/UserGuide/sessions/#session-autosave) for more information.


* Alignment tracks:
    * Expanded insertions have been redesigned.  Insertions for all loaded alignment tracks are now indicated by triangles under the genomic ruler. 
    * New group option: by selected insertion locus 


* New file formats:

    * GVCF (see [description](https://gatk.broadinstitute.org/hc/en-us/articles/360035531812-GVCF-Genomic-Variant-Call-Format) on the GATK site).
    * bedMethyl (see [description](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwjnurf9zfmCAxU9FFkFHfjeAwsQFnoECA4QAw&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.encodeproject.org%2Fdata-standards%2Fwgbs%2F%23%3A~%3Atext%3Dstates%2520at%2520CpG.-%2CDescription%2520of%2520bedMethyl%2520file%2CStart%2520position%2520in%2520chromosome&usg=AOvVaw21Dwl3k4lFCnoVxG8q8Ffg&opi=89978449) on the ENCODE site).

