<p class="page-title">IGV 3.0</p>

# Track Hubs

UCSC track hubs in the [useOneFile](https://genome.ucsc.edu/goldenPath/help/hgTracksHelp.html#UseOneFile) format can now
be loaded directly into IGV to define a reference genome and associated tracks. Notably this includes the more than
3,600 Genome assemblies and associated tracks hosted at the [UCSC GenArk](https://hgdownload.soe.ucsc.edu/hubs/) site.
See [loading data](UserGuide/loading_data.md) for more details. For more information on the GenArk resource see

`Clawson, H., Lee, B.T., Raney, B.J. et al. GenArk: towards a million UCSC genome browsers. Genome Biol 24, 217 (2023).`
[https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-023-03057-x](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-023-03057-x)

# Base Modifications

* Base modification options now include the choice of monocolor and two-color schemes for all modifiction types.
  Previously the two-color scheme was restricted to 5mC modifications.
  See [Base modifications](/UserGuide/tracks/alignments/base_modifications/) for full details.

* Colors for each modification, as well as colors to represent the unmodified base in two-color schemes, can now be
  customized from a new `Base Mods` tab on the Preferences dialog.

* Pacbio SMRT Kinetics parameters can now be visualized. This option is enabled on the `Base Mods` tab of the user
  preferences. See [SMRT kinetics color options](/UserGuide/tracks/alignments/smrt) for more details.

* Base modifications are now shown for expanded insertions

# Chimeric Reads

Visualization of chimeric (split) reads have been improved with enhanced display of clipping information, as well
as a new split read alignment diagram.   For details see [Chimeric Reads](/UserGuide/tracks/alignments/chimeric_reads)

# Other improvements

* Expanded insertions redesigned
* Support for GVCF files
* Support for bedMethyl format
* Session automatically saved and restored (optional)